= Getting Started =


Welcome to Developers!
  
This software is developed in Ruby on Rails, using Rails 1.2.3 and Ruby 1.8.5, along with MySQL as a back-end data store.  It uses many plugins to create a mashup with Google Maps.


== Details ==

To setup the code on your local machine, you'll first need Ruby, Ruby on Rails and MySQL.  Check out the Ruby on Rails site for information on installing everything.  The code runs fine on both Linux and Windows (I'm developing on Windows XP and Ubuntu 7) and should work fine on Mac OS X as well.

In addition, for image resizing, you'll need either ImageMagick or MiniMagick.  One of these packages is used by the attachment_fu plugin, which is in the repository already.  ImageMagick or MiniMagick are not the in repository, and you should visit their websites to determine how to install them on your particular OS.

To get the source code up and running, do the following:

  # Check out the head of the trunk from the subversion repository.
  # Create the development and test databases in MySQL on your local MySQL server or whatever database back-end you can get to work (I called mine "eol_ingestion_form_development" and "eol_ingestion_form_test").
  # Copy the "config/database.example" file to "config/database.yml" and then edit the database configuration information to match your databases created in step 2.
  # From a console in your application directory, run "rake db:migrate" to setup the database schema.  If you get any errors, it's likely your database connection is failing, so check the database connections and database usernames/passwords.
  # Run "rake db:fixtures:load" to setup the core data (basically a couple test users, some habitats, a couple organism names).
  # Start webrick or mongrel and cross your fingers: "ruby script/server" or "ruby script/server webrick".
  # Set the permissions on the folder "public/uploaded_images" to allow the anonymous web user or your local account (whatever account your development server is running under) to have permissions to write to this folder.  It is (obviously) used to save image uploads.
  # The test admin user login from the user fixture is "test@test.com" with a password of "test".  Feel free to change it after the first login.

Note that if your PC is not on the Internet, you cannot run the app.  Most pages make use of the Google Maps API or other web services that require a constant connection to the Internet.  Sorry for those off the grid.

Also note that there is a Google Maps API Key in the "config/gmaps_api_key.yml" which should work fine for localhost. Obtain your own Google Maps API key for your host if you need to.  This is used for both the maps and the geocoding.

 
 
 